In this lecture, I will give you an
overview of Maven the build automation
tool or the project management tool
maven uses convention over configuration
that is if we simply follow certain
folder structure in our java projects
like a SRC main java SRC test java
and so on and if we execute a maven
command from the command line like maven
clean install maven will automatically
compile the java classes under the java
folder or the main java folder it
compiles the test under the test java
folder it runs those tests then prepares
a war file or jar file from our
compiled classes and if this project is
a web application project has a few
other folders that we need to create and
then it will automatically create a war
file of our web application project and
it can even deploy them onto the server
it's simple command like this.
Maven is very lightweight it uses a plug-in based
architecture then we download and
install maven it is very lightweight it
has a bare-bones and then when we run
certain commands it will download for
example when we are compiling it uses
the compiler plugin then we are running
our test it uses a plug-in to run tests
called sure fire and there are several
other plugins which we can configure
inside maven on the fly so it is very
lightweight when we initially get it the
configuration file in case of maven is
called pom dot XML, pom stands for
project object model in this XML file
will first configure our project
coordinates that is the project name a
group for the project so that different
teams in within our company can have
their own projects saved in a certain
location those are called coordinates we
can even give a version number inside
those coordinates for our project the
current version of our project as i
already said maven is plug in or maven
follows plug-in architecture so we
can define all the plugins that we need
for a certain project in the form dot
XML by default it comes with several
plugins if we need third-party plugins
we can also configure that in the
pom.xml plugins section finally one
of the main advantages of maven is it
can easily pull all the dependencies
that our project needs that is
third-party libraries or open-source
libraries can be pulled from the maven
repository and once we declare them in
the pom.XML in the dependency
section maven will automatically pull
them and use them both to compile our
classes as well as it will package those
dependencies into the war files or web
application projects.
The maven repository is where all the projects
artifacts once our projects are compiled
and jarred those artifacts are saved
into the maven repositories by
default there is a open source
repository out there on the internet we
can also have a local enterprise level
repository where and we can maintain all
the open source stuff or only what our
organization needs so if we need web
services jars like cxs jars or apache
access jars we can have only those in
our local repository so that we can
control we can have more control on what
the developers within our enterprise can
use and also it saves us some bandwidth
instead of connecting to the internet
every time we need to download the
dependencies we can simply connect to
the local server or the local repository
in the next few lectures you will be
using the m2e maven to eclipse plugin
that's already there in the eclipse that
you have installed and we will write a
simple java class will create a simple
java project come up with a simple java
class write a test for it and execute it
as a part of the maven build lifecycle.